---
layout: post
title: "Domain Modeling with Types & ReasonML"
categories:
  - Workshops
tags:
  - Domain Modeling
  - DDD
  - ReasonML
  - ADTs
  - Algebraic Data Types
  - type system
last_modified_at: 2019-09-10
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
---

Pair programming is fun. You catch each others bugs, review your code as you type and are much more productive. Statically typed functional programming languages, like ReasonML, give you the pair programmer you’ve always wished for - a compiler on steroids. Unlike compilers we all know from C++ or Java, with ReasonML you can bake business logic right into the type system - making illegal code unrepresentable. You write less tests, and your code documents itself. All verified by a state-of-the-art compiler.

ReasonML is a part of the ML programming languages family (Like OCaml and F#). Its syntax is engineered to be as close to JavaScript as possible, and is backed and used at Facebook. It is a convenient entry point to experience first hand features that don't exist in the JS ecosystem; features that can help you look at problems from a fresh point of view, and also have fun. These include a strict type system with zero type annotation, immutability by default, algebraic data types baked into the language, pattern matching, auto-currying and much more.

The workshop is a hands-on introduction to the language, aimed to give you a taste of what the language has to offer, and point you in the right direction if you'd like to learn more.

[https://github.com/wix-incubator/learn-reasonml-workshop](https://github.com/wix-incubator/learn-reasonml-workshop)